---
aliases:
  - OSCP
tags:
  - 🎓
primary categories:
  - "[[01 - Training]]"
  - "[[01 - Penetration Test]]"
  - "[[01 - Red Team]]"
secondary categories:
  - "[[02 - OffSec]]"
  - "[[02 - Metasploit]]"
  - "[[02 - Online Courses]]"
type: Study Resources
---
# [[PEN-200]]

***
## Summary

*Penetration Testing with Kali Linux* (*PEN-200*)[^1] is a foundational penetration testing course designed to teach practical, hands-on offensive security skills. The course covers a wide range of topics, including information gathering, vulnerability scanning, exploitation, privilege escalation, post-exploitation, and web application attacks, with an emphasis on creative problem-solving and manual techniques. Students of PEN-200 are invited to take the *Offensive Security Certified Professional* (*OSCP*) exam in an attempt to earn the popular entry-level offensive security certification credential.

Students work through a series of lab machines that simulate real-world environments, ultimately preparing for the 24-hour practical *Offensive Security Certified Professional* (*OSCP*) certification exam. The course philosophy encourages the "Try Harder" mindset, fostering persistence, adaptability, and self-guided learning.

## Learning Objectives

* Understand and execute the full penetration testing process: from reconnaissance to reporting.
* Identify, enumerate, and exploit common vulnerabilities in Windows and Linux systems.
* Perform privilege escalation on compromised hosts using misconfigurations or kernel exploits.
* Enumerate and abuse Active Directory misconfigurations in corporate-like environments.
* Develop proficiency with tools such as Nmap, Netcat, Hydra, Metasploit, and custom scripts.
* Perform web application attacks, including SQL injection, command injection, and local/remote file inclusion.
* In earlier iterations of the course students learn how to create and modify shellcode, and understand basic buffer overflow concepts (32-bit Windows stack-based BOF).
* Pivot between compromised machines to access internal networks or additional targets.
* Document findings clearly and concisely to meet professional reporting standards.
* Build resilience and troubleshooting skills through self-directed learning and iterative practice ("Try Harder" mindset).

## Exercises or Lab Work

| Exercise/Lab                             | Description                            |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| [[Example Hack The Box Retired Machine]] | An example Hack The Box (HTB) machine. |
***
## Resources:

| Hyperlink                                                                                                 | Info                    |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| [PEN 200 PWK Syllabus](https://www.offsec.com/documentation/penetration-testing-with-kali.pdf)            | PEN-200 Syllabus        |
| [Penetration Testing with Kali Linux (PEN-200)](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-200-44065/overview) | PEN-200 Course Platform |

[^1]: https://www.offsec.com/ads/pen-200/

***

*Created Date*: <%+tp.file.creation_date("MMMM Do YYYY (HH:mm a)")%>  
*Last Modified Date*: <%+tp.file.last_modified_date("MMMM Do YYYY (HH:mm a)")%>
